Let's say that you have an online store and want to add a new feature.
Normally, after users make a search and are shown products,
they can click on a product image to be taken to its full information page.
The new feature that you want to add is a quick view overlay,
where clicking on the product image brings up an overlay with summarize
product info without taking them entirely away from the search results.
You'd like to test if this new feature leads to more sales.
If we run an experiment here,
then we should be able to say whether or not the overlay
caused a change in customers' purchasing habits.
So, what makes an experiment an experiment?
First, we need to perform a comparison between two groups.
If we have some people interact with the old website without the overlay,
and some people interact with the new website with the overlay,
then a difference in purchases made by each group will show us the effect of the overlay.
Without a comparison between groups,
we don't have an experiment.
Secondly, we need to control for other differences between groups.
The only difference between the two groups should be the feature that we specifically
manipulate whether the customer gets the site
with the overlay or the site without the overlay.
The typical way of doing this is through randomization.
For each customer, we randomly assign them to a site version.
By randomly assigning individuals to each page,
the distribution of other variables like age or gender should be similar between groups.
The only practical difference between the groups should be the feature we care
about whether they got the new overlays or not.